# COL761Assignments
Team Members Include:

Group Members:
1) Jai Javeria - 2018CS10340
2) Prakam – 2018CS10367
3) Pratik Prawar - 2018CS50415

Files bundled:

Explanation fo part b:

We observed the following for the graph of part b:

1) As minimun support is decreased, run time of both apriori and fp tree algorithm increase.

2) The time taken for running fp tree is always lesser than the time taken for running the apriori algorithm. This is true for any value of minimum support that the algorithms amy be run on.

Explanation:

1) As minimum support is decreased, the number of frequent itemsets would increase typically, and will stay constatn at the very least. This is because:
	set of frequnt itemsets at min support X2 is subset of set of frequnt itemsets at min support X2, if X1 <= X2.

2) The apriori algorith is slower than fp tree because of the following reasons:

a) The databse scans for the apriori algorithm are K+1, where K is the maximum size of frequent itemset generated bya apriori alogrithm. Since the databases are typically very large, hence they need to be stored in disc and can’t be stored in main memory. Hence accessing them is a very costly task. The fp growth algorithm accesses the database inly 2 times, making it a much faster algorithm.

b) Apriori algorithm generates candidates for each of it’s frequent itemsets, and then checks on each of them seperately. These itemsets may be large in number of the itemset in the database is huge. Generation of these candidates is an expensive computation, which makes it slower as compared to fp growth algorithm.

c) With respect to larger datasets, fp tree takes lesser time as it stores information in the form of tree data structure (which results in crucial information beign stored more effeciently).
